# Upgrade guide

<div class="preface">
This guide describes how to upgrade from <code>v0.5.x</code> to <code>v0.6.x</code>.
</div>

## Updating the architecture configuration <impact-header impact="high" />

Aside from improved clarity, the changes below are motivated by an internal refactor that introduces a configuration object serving as the single source of truth for both the back-end and the front-end.

### Architecture preset

The `architecture.preset` and `architecture.domains_directory` configurations have been removed. Instead, you may configure your desired architecture in a service provider.

If you were using `modules`, you will need to add the following in a service provider:

:::code-group
```php [ArchitectureServiceProvider.php]
public function boot(Hybridly $hybridly): void
{
    $hybridly->loadModuleFrom(resource_path('domains'));
}
```
:::

If you were using `architecture.domains_directory` with a different directory name, update `domains` accordingly in the snippet above.

To disable the default architecture, you will need to set `architecture.load_default_module` to `false`.

```php
'architecture' => [
    'preset' => 'default', // [!code --]
		'load_default_module' => true,  // [!code ++]
]
```

### Root view

The `hybridly.root_view` configuration option has been moved to `hybridly.architecture.root_view`. You will need to update your `config/hybridly.php` accordingly.

The `\Hybridly\Hybridly::DEFAULT_ROOT_VIEW` constant has been moved to `Hybridly\Support\Configuration\Architecture::ROOT_VIEW` and will need to be replaced in `config/hybridly.php` as well as other places it may be used.

```php
use Hybridly\Hybridly; // [!code --] // [!code focus:2]
use Hybridly\Support\Configuration\Architecture; // [!code ++]

return [
    'root_view' => Hybridly::DEFAULT_ROOT_VIEW, // [!code --] // [!code focus:4]
    'architecture' => [
        'root_view' => Architecture::ROOT_VIEW, // [!code ++]
	  ]
];
```

### Other configuration options

The following configurations options have changed:

- `architecture.root` has been renamed to `architecture.root_directory`
- `architecture.application` has been updated to `architecture.application_directory` and `architecture.application_main`

```php
'architecture' => [
    'root' => 'resources', // [!code --]
    'application' => 'resources/application/main.ts', // [!code --]
		'root_directory' => 'resources', // [!code ++]
		'application_directory' => 'application',  // [!code ++]
		'application_main' => 'main.ts',  // [!code ++]
]
```

## Updating to Vite 5 <impact-header impact="medium" />

Hybridly now depends on Vite 5. You will need to [upgrade it](https://vitejs.dev/guide/migration.html).

## Updating to ESM syntax <impact-header impact="medium" />

Vite is [deprecating its CommonJS API](https://vitejs.dev/guide/troubleshooting.html#vite-cjs-node-api-deprecated), which means projects should migrate to EcmaScript Modules.

For projects already using ESM syntax, this is simply a matter of adding `"type": "module"` to `package.json`. For other projects, you will have to update the syntax in order to upgrade to `v0.6.x`. 


## Updating the `force_case` configuration <impact-header impact="medium" />

The following configuration options have been renamed and may need to be updated in `config/hybridly.php`:

- `hybridly.force_case.input` -> `hybridly.properties.force_input_case`
- `hybridly.force_case.output` -> `hybridly.properties.force_output_case`


## Updating `vite.config.ts` <impact-header impact="low" />

Hybridly now embeds its own plugin to integrate with Laravel instead of relying on [`laravel/vite-plugin`](https://github.com/laravel/vite-plugin). This allows us to have more control over functionalities and updates.

You may remove the `laravel` property from the plugin if you were using it:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import hybridly from 'hybridly/vite'

export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [
		hybridly({
			laravel: { // [!code --]
				valetTls: true,  // [!code --]
			}, // [!code --]
		}),
	],
})
```

If you were specifying a custom `input` value through the `laravel` property, you may do so via `build.rollupOptions.input` instead.

## Calls to `Hybridly#flash` <impact-header impact="low" />

The `flash` method of the `Hybridly` class, which was a convenience method for flashing data to the session, was deprecated and has been removed in this version.
