# Upgrade guide

<div class="preface">
This guide describes how to upgrade from <code>v0.53.x</code> to <code>v0.4.x</code>.
</div>

## Updating the configuration <impact-header impact="high" />

Previously, `hybridly.config.ts` was used to share settings between Hybridly and its Code extension. In 0.4.x, the architecture has changed and Hybridly now uses PHP to share its configuration.

You may delete `hybridly.config.ts` and configure the equivalent options in `config/hybridly.php`:

- `eager` -> `architecture.eager_load_views`
- `domains` -> `architecture.preset` (accepts `default`, `modules` or `custom`)
- `root` -> `architecture.root`

```php
'architecture' => [
    'preset' => 'modules',
    'eager_load_views' => true,
    'root' => 'resources',
],
```

Additionally, the `pages` and `layouts` options have been removed.

## Updating calls to views <impact-header impact="high" />

Previously, when using the domain-based architecture, a page or layout could be specified using the `domain:name` syntax, where `domain` was the name of the `domain` and `name` the dot-notated path to the view relative to the domain.

This syntax has slightly changed to be more aligned with Laravel's base syntax, and is now using a double colon instead of a single colon:

:::code-group
```php [Views]
return view('security:login'); // [!code --]
return view('security::login'); // [!code ++]
```

```vue [Layouts]
<template layout="security:profile"> // [!code --]
<template layout="security::profile"> // [!code ++]
```
:::

## Updating `config/hybridly.php` <impact-header impact="low" />

With the architectural changes, all options from the `testing` section of the configuration except `ensure_page_exist` are no longer needed and can be removed. 

Thanks to its improved reliability, it is recommend to set `ensure_page_exist` to `true`.

Additionally, you may want to add [the new `architecture` options](https://github.com/hybridly/hybridly/blob/0.x/packages/laravel/config/hybridly.php#L38-L42) to your existing file.

## Updating `main.ts` <impact-header impact="low" />

If you were still importing `virtual:hybridly/router` manually, you will get an error when starting the development server. You may now remove this import.
