# Upgrade guide

<div class="preface">
This guide describes how to upgrade from <code>v0.6.x</code> to <code>v0.7.x</code>.
</div>

## Updating calls to `defineLayout` and `defineLayoutProperties` <impact-header impact="high" />

The `defineLayout` and `defineLayoutProperties` utils were removed. Instead, you may use [`defineOptions`](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-script-setup.html#defineoptions), a macro provided by Vue 3.3+.

**Before**:
```ts
defineLayout(main)
defineLayoutProperties({
	fullscreen: false,
})
```

**After**:
```ts
defineOptions({
	layout: main,
	properties: {
		fullscreen: false,
	},
})
```

## Manually import previously auto-imported TypeScript utilities <impact-header impact="high" />

The way Hybridly imports TypeScript files has changed, and some files which exports would previously be auto-imported will no longer be.

You may use [`loadTypeScriptFilesFrom`](../../api/laravel/hybridly.md#loadtypescriptfilesfrom) to instruct Hybridly to load them, or simply manually import them.

## Update the `recursive` arguments of `loadModuleFrom` <impact-header impact="low" />

The `recursive` argument of the `loadModuleFrom`, `loadModulesFrom` and `loadModule` methods has been renamed to `deep` to better reflect what it does. If you were using named parameters, you will have to update your code accordingly.

## Remove the `php` options on the Vite plugin <impact-header impact="low" />

This option was used to specify the path to the PHP executable. This is no longer supported. You should use the `PHP_EXECUTABLE_PATH` environment variable instead.

```ts
export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [
		hybridly({
			php: 'custom/path/to/php' // [!code --]
		}),
	],
})
```

## Replace `useContext` by `getRouterContext` <impact-header impact="low" />

`useContext` has been replaced by `getRouterContext`. You will need to update calls accordingly:

```ts
const url = useContext().value?.url // [!code --]
const url = getRouterContext()?.url // [!code ++]
```

## Update view identifiers to be lowercase <impact-header impact="low" />

If you were loading page components in your back-end directories using [`loadModule`](../../api/laravel/hybridly.md#loadmodule), you may have gotten mixed-case component identifiers, like `foo::Bar.Baz.index`.

This was fixed in v0.7, and you will need to update these calls to lowercase: `foo::bar.baz.index`.
