# Hybridly v0.7.0

<div class="preface">
Hybridly v0.7.0 is a maintenance update that removes a few utilities that are no longer needed.
</div>

## Upgrading

You may upgrade Hybridly using the following commands:

```shell [pnpm]
composer require "hybridly/laravel:^0.7.0"
pnpm i -D hybridly@^0.7.0
```

This release contains breaking change. Please follow the [upgrade guide](../guide/upgrade/v0.7.x.md).

## `defineLayout` and `defineLayoutProperties` are gone

Previously, you had the ability to define a page's layout and its properties through the `defineLayout` and `defineLayoutProperties` utils.

These functions were implemented prior to [`defineOptions`](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-script-setup.html#defineoptions) being added to Vue.

Even though they were useful, there was multiple issues with them:
- They caused a recursive page refresh in some situations, resulting in a lag after HMR,
- They were incompatible with server-side rendering,
- Their implementation was somewhat complex to maintain due to reactivity hoops.

You may now use `defineOptions`:

```ts
defineOptions({
	layout: main,
	properties: {
		fullscreen: false,
	},
})
```

## `useBackForward` now accepts options

[`useBackForward`](../api/utils/use-back-forward.md) is an util function that registers callbacks executed during back-forward browser navigations.

It now accepts a parameter that defines whether the page component should be reloaded on back-forward navigations:

```ts
useBackForward({
	reload: true,
})
```

This is the equivalent of calling the returned `reloadOnBackForward` function. It's simply more practical.

## Headless UI and Radix are no longer auto-imported by default

Hybridly had for auto-importing Headless UI and Radix components if the corresponding package was installed.

This support has been removed, and you may need to update your `vite.config.ts` accordingly.

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import hybridly from 'hybridly/vite'
import RadixVueResolver from 'radix-vue/resolver' // [!code ++]

export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [
		hybridly({
			vueComponents: {  // [!code ++:5]
				resolvers: [
					RadixVueResolver(),
				],
			},
		}),
	],
})
```

## TypeScript files are no longer automatically imported in all loaded directories

Previously, TypeScript files present in any loaded directory would be auto-imported using `unplugin-auto-imports`. 

For instance, when loading a module, any TypeScript file either at the root of the directory or nested inside of it would have its exports auto-imported. This behavior was not easily customizable and would require developers to override the `unplugin-auto-imports` configuration in `vite.config.ts`.

In v0.7.0, this behavior has changed. By default, only TypeScript files at the root of a module will be loaded. They can also be ignored by setting the `loadTypeScript` argument to `false`.

You may also arbitrarily load TypeScript files in any directory by calling the `loadTypeScriptFilesFrom` method.

## The `php` option is no longer available for the Hybridly plugin

The `php` option allowed to pass the path to the PHP executable path to the plugin so it could call the back-end and fetch the configuration needed by Hybridly to run.

However, this is incompatible with a new feature that allows to pass the options as a callback which accepts the loaded configuration. Additionnally, it makes more sense to define the PHP path as an environment variable, because it is something specific to an environment.

## `useContext` is gone

`useContext` was a function that returned a `computed` version of Hybridly's context object. 

Prior to Vue 3.4, this was a reactive object—however, memoization changes in Vue 3.4 [broke that behavior](https://github.com/vuejs/core/issues/10046). Since this utility function was meant to be a escape-hatch though, we decided to remove it in favor to [`getRouterContext`](../api/utils/get-router-context.md), a similar function that already exists in Hybridly core.

## Initial payload is available during initialization

The initial payload that contains data from the back-end during the initial page render is now available to the `setup` callback from [`initializeHybridly`](../api/utils/initialize-hybridly.md#setup) for advanced usage.

## Hidden table actions can now be invoked

A bug was preventing dynamically-hidden table actions from being invoked. This issue has been fixed by [Owen Conti](https://github.com/hybridly/hybridly/pull/112).

## Model resolution can be customized for table actions

[Owen Conti](https://github.com/hybridly/hybridly/pull/113) contributed a way to customize the logic for resolving models when working with table actions. This is specifically useful to handle scenarios where specific scopes are needed, such as when using soft-deleted models.

## Vue files identifiers are now lower-case

Vue files loaded using [`loadModule`](../api/laravel/hybridly.md#loadmodule) would have their identifier generated using the file structure. 

For instance, the identifier for the following `show.vue` file would be `fleet-tracking::Synthesis.show`:
```
src/
└── Feature/
    └── FleetTracking/
        ├── FleetTrackingServiceProvider.php
        └── Synthesis/
            └── show.vue
```

In v0.7, the same file would be identified by `fleet-tracking::synthesis.show`.
